Happy November, everybody. Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. I actually just shared
our 100th Data Science Hangout recording to YouTube yesterday and made me realize that
we never actually celebrated that. So thank you all for being here and making this space
what it is. I can't believe we're already over 100 Data Science Hangouts. If this is
your first time joining us, hi. So nice to meet you. I'm Rachel. I lead customer marketing
at Posit. This is our open space to chat about data science leadership, questions you're
facing and getting to hear about what's going on in the world of data across different industries.
So we're here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching this recording
on YouTube later and you want to join us live, you can use the link below to add it
to your calendar. But at the Hangout, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment
for everybody. Love to hear from everyone, no matter your years of experience, your titles,
industry or even the languages that you work in. It's totally okay to just listen in here.
I say if you're out walking the dog, maybe you're at lunch, it's okay to just listen in.
But there's also three ways to jump in and ask questions or add your own perspective.
So you can raise your hand on Zoom and I'll keep an eye out here. You can put questions in the Zoom
chat and just put a little star next to it if it's something you want me to read out loud instead.
And then lastly, we have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously too.
And thank you, Curtis, for sharing that there in the chat. Sometimes I forget to say this,
but if anybody is hiring, feel free to share any open roles in the chat as well. That's definitely
not spammy at all to me. I think it's great to share those jobs in the chat too. But with that,
I am so excited to introduce my co-host for today, David Sluder. David is data science
senior program manager at the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations. And David, I'd love
to have you just introduce yourself a bit and share a little bit about your role,
but also something you like to do outside of work too.
Sure. Thank you, Rachel. And good morning, good afternoon, good evening, depending on where you
are. I'm really excited to be here. I've got two disclaimers though I have to start off with.
Right. So number one, I just want to publicly say I'm here to represent my own opinion. I am
not here to represent my employer, Institute of Nuclear Power Operations or the broader nuclear
industry. Of course, I'm going to talk about them to give the conversation some context, but
this is purely my opinion. And then the second piece is that I really need to make
sure everyone knows that anything I talk about today is, it's not just my work. So I work as
part of a broader team and the team has worked so hard to build out data science at ENPO. I work
with a bunch of smart, passionate people and it's just really important that they get a lot of
credit too here. So with that said, my name is David Sluder. I'm a data scientist here at ENPO.
I've been at ENPO for almost 12 years now, only about two years in the data science space,
about 10 years in the IT space here at ENPO. And it's a really interesting company and
I didn't know anything about ENPO until I started to work here. So maybe I'll kind of give you a
briefer on what we are and what we do. So ENPO is an independent nonprofit that is funded by our
members and our members are the nuclear power industry. So within the US, I think we have
54 nuclear power stations and they all kind of, you know, pay us a member-based fee to perform
our service. And now our service is that we set and assess safety and reliability standards for
the nuclear power industry. So we set these standards, we send out evaluation teams to
actually kind of determine how well the different stations are adhering to these standards.
We, you know, kind of give them a score at the very end of that. And, you know, we do that on a
regular cadence. So we do that along with also kind of facilitating the sharing of knowledge
across stations, which is really interesting in an industry where you have different companies
competing together, but then also sharing information with an independent organization
that allows them to, you know, kind of share what they've learned so that we're all able to learn
from each other's experiences, mistakes, challenges, that sort of thing. I've been doing, you know,
kind of data science for about two years now. Before that I worked in IT, but my background is
at, my bachelor's, you can call it my background, is in humanistic psychology, which is, you know,
kind of the most qualitative thing that you could do. So it's been a fun road to figure out
how I got here. You know, outside of work, I like to do a lot of things. I like to read,
I like to laugh, and I like to travel. So this past weekend I was able to indulge all three.
You know, Posit Contra this year was in Chicago, and it was the first time I had been to Chicago
with any chance to explore it. So I got back home and I told my wife, Katie, hey, we need to go to
Chicago. So we went to Chicago this past weekend and we saw, you know, our favorite comedian. We
went to go see some improv. We found kind of a punk bookstore, which was a whole lot of fun.
And we got to do just a lot of wandering around the city. So it was an awesome trip. And,
you know, I at this point kind of recommend Chicago to anyone, especially if it's the
weekend before Halloween, because then you just get to ride around on the L train and
watch everyone's costumes. That's awesome. I know there were a few people from Posit who
have been thinking about moving there after going for Posit Conference too.
I see why. Yeah. I see George asked, who did you see perform?
Maria Bamford. She's my favorite comedian. Number two is Kyle Kinane.
Well, David, thanks so much for the intro and sharing a little bit about your background
there. I know when we were chatting, you shared some more info on how you had previously worked
in IT as well. And so I was just curious to kick off the conversation with that because
it's something that comes up quite a bit in this space, but having moved from IT to data science,
I know you have probably pretty unique perspectives on both sides. What would
you recommend to some of us who might be struggling to communicate across those lines?
That's a good question. And, you know, I think a challenge that I hear in the Hangouts and then
also just kind of conversations I've had with other people, you know, to me, a lot of times you
have these challenges and it really just kind of boils down to building a good relationship,
you know, so that can pan out in a lot of different ways. And it's really dependent
on your organization and I think how it's set up and just, you know, kind of the general size of it.
The way that we did it was, you know, we kind of built data science, you know, not quite from
scratch, but we had one organization at Enpo that did some sort of kind of data science-y work.
And then our senior leadership team kind of identified it as a strategic priority for
the company to actually build out that capability. So then there was a lot of emphasis and a lot of
focus on it. And that was right after I had moved into the data science organization. So we knew
that, you know, data science and IT needed to work together because, I mean, every single project that
we work on has an IT component to it. So some of what we did is we started having leadership
meetings between data science leadership and IT leadership on some sort of regular cadence,
just to kind of talk about what the roadmaps look like, what projects are on the horizon,
what challenges there might be, and just kind of putting everything out in the open as much as you
can just to have those conversations. You know, on a more personal level, I think it's really
important for the two groups to kind of learn more about what each group does, you know. So
sit down with a network engineer and understand why, you know, they might be a little cautious
about opening up all of, you know, opening up their infrastructure to all of the packages on a
repo or, you know, having a network engineer sit down with a data scientist and understand why
that's a challenge for them. It really, to me, just kind of comes down to having conversations
and being open and honest and transparent and figuring out a way to move forward together.
That's great. How did you actually first start those conversations? I think you said it was at
the senior leadership level, but was there something that kind of drove those initial
conversations? Well, so data science kind of became an emphasis for ENPO because the way
that we were doing business was changing. So we go out and evaluate stations every two years. That's
kind of been the regular cadence for about 30 years. But a lot can happen in between those
two-year assessments, right? So we understood that we needed to get into more of a kind of a
continuous monitoring sort of fashion. And the only way that we can do that, because we don't
want to go out and evaluate more often, it's a really costly thing to set up an evaluation team
and send it to a station. So instead, it meant that we needed to figure out a way to use the data
that we have to do some modeling, some analysis, and try to kind of understand what their
quote-unquote performance looks like in between those evaluations. So that was kind of
where it landed at a strategic level. And then it kind of became our job to actually
implement that. And having recently, it was real lucky having moved
right from IT to data science and being able to kind of bring that perspective to both sides,
you know, I think put us in a really good situation. But I know that's kind of a rare
situation to be in, too. So, you know, I think, yeah, just kind of like sitting down,
you know, putting your chairs in a circle and saying, what's going on? What can we work on?
How do we figure this all out together? It's just kind of the right way to start.
Yeah, thank you. Russ, I see you asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah, thank you. I have a master's in counseling. I love humanistic psychology. I could talk to you
about that all day. Does that help you in data science? If so, can you say something about that?
I thought about that, you know, kind of in preparation for that talk. And the more that
I thought about it, the more kind of threads that I could see. Just because, you know, a lot of data
science and a lot of working in an organization in general is kind of working on relationships
and communication. And actually, you know, actively listening, you know, that was something
I remember taking a class on that when I was in college. And I feel like I still, you know,
try to use those skills to this day where, you know, you're actually sitting there in front of
a person and you're hearing what they say and you're thinking about what they say instead of
figuring out what you're just going to say next. So, you know, kind of having a real active
listening sort of conversation. And then understanding that, you know, people are people
and we can be inconsistent and hard to understand. And, you know, really all it takes is maybe a
little bit of openness and kindness to give space to the sorts of conversations that need to happen.
You know, the sorts of kind of crucial conversations that we have. We call it,
that's kind of a term that we use at INPO for these sort of intense conversations
that need some sort of resolution. And, you know, in my opinion, just kind of being open to that
and understanding that, you know, there's going to be some emotional reactions and that's A-OK
because we're all human beings. But it's important to not, you know, just kind of react to them
and just fan the flames. You need to figure out what the sources of the issue and address that.
Love that. Thank you. Alan, I see you have a question here. You want to jump in?
Yeah, sure. Hi. Hey, David, I'm really curious. So my instinct is like performance metrics in
nuclear power is really, really specific, like a super specific domain. If that's the case,
I wonder how that domain expertise comes to play in the stuff you do day to day,
or if maybe that's the wrong assumption and really the metrics are around efficiency and people
metrics and like things that aren't really familiar. Like, I wonder how specific what
you're doing is to that industry and, you know, how you operate in that kind of environment.
That's an excellent question. So the industry metrics we get, we get hundreds of data points
from every station every month. And we use that to, we end up, you know, because every station
can be a little different. You've got to, you know, go through some sort of, you know, kind
of like normalization scheme. So we have these indicators that are a way that we normalize the
data. And then that's what we can actually do some modeling on. And I have learned just how
little I know about nuclear power by moving to the industry side of things and needing to
understand exactly what, you know, every label, every acronym means. And it'll take a really long
time to get to that point. And luckily I don't need all of that to do my day to day job. But,
you know, whenever I'm working on a really important model, I've got to make sure that
I'm not making some really bad assumptions about it. So that, you know, means that I got to sit
down and talk with my manager, director, or some other subject matter experts in some of the
functional areas here at INPO, just to kind of, you know, make sure that whatever I don't know
isn't going to actually bite me sometime. So yeah, that's a great comment.
Thanks.
I know you mentioned data science is relatively new for INPO.
How have you been successful in introducing data science and data science tools?
Great question. So, you know, introducing like a new tool to the enterprise is a really challenging
thing. You can't just, you know, say here are some model results and expect everyone to understand
what that means. So one of the changes that we've made, and it's actually kind of part of
our governance that we've written, is that anytime there is, you know, a new tool of some sort
delivered, we have to figure out a way to explain it or interpret it with some other, you know,
maybe some other tool or maybe, you know, kind of a help function of some sort. So, you know,
one of the things that we've learned is that, you know, delivering these model results that
require some subtlety and understanding is hard to do for people that don't use it on a real
frequent basis. So, you know, we've added a lot more kind of like help functions into the tools
that we build, the ways that we expose these model results. And then we've also, you know,
kind of built some other tools to, I got to talk generally, to help you understand why the model
is saying what it's saying. And we've had a lot of success in, you know, kind of thinking about
things from, you know, the end user perspective and not at the data science perspective to help
us figure out exactly what we can do better to make sure that they use the tool correctly and
they get the insight that they want out of it. I guess kind of maybe this follows along with
this a little bit, and no worries if there's certain things you can't share with us. But
there was an anonymous question that was, what kind of data science use cases can you share with
us in the nuclear industry and in your company? Yeah. So, you know, what I kind of alluded to
earlier is, you know, what kind of the impetus for data science at EMBA was trying to understand
performance in between the assessments every two years, biannual, biannual, I never remember the
word. So, you know, we get data from the industry every month and we have a model that helps us
gauge that sort of performance in between the assessments, right? So, the assessments are kind
of our gold standard in the way that we know if the model is right or wrong, but it gives us
an estimate in between for their performance. And then, you know, from there, there are other
things where you can, you know, maybe kind of come up with some risk models to see if something,
you know, has a high probability of happening. And, you know, we don't, obviously don't want
it to happen. So, we want to figure out that risk and try to get ahead of it. Let's see,
what else we got? I'm going to stop there, just, you know, just to make sure I keep it
general enough. Sorry. That's okay. So, when you share those models, who are you sharing them with
or how do you share the model with broader stakeholder groups? So, you know, data science
at ENPO, our department is actually called data science and it's composed of kind of three groups.
So, one is data visualization. One is kind of data analytics and that's where I live. And then
one is data quality or data management. I think we call it data quality. So, you know, whenever I
build a model, you know, I'm just kind of having the results end up in a database somewhere.
And then we rely on our incredibly capable data visualization group to actually kind of build
those visualizations to deliver it to an end user. So, you know, no one ever really gets those raw
results out of the database. They get something within a broader context to help them, to help
make sure that they are interpreting it correctly. Thank you. Sure. Let me jump over to one other
anonymous question first here. And one was, pharma has a huge emphasis on a very muddled concept of
validation. Is there something like this perception of regulatory overhead that affects your work?
That exists within the nuclear industry, but it doesn't affect ENPO. So, there is – I remember
when I worked at IT, there's a group called – it's called NITSL, N-I-T-S-L, the Nuclear
Information Technology and Strategic Leadership Group, which is kind of a more nuclear IT group,
working group. And they have a focus on quality assurance because there are very strict regulations
that go into how you validate that a system, that like a software system is going to do what you say
it's going to do as long as, you know, it's going to do what you say it's going to do and it's going
to work correctly and there's no way that it can kind of, you know, get it wrong. But that mostly
affects the safety systems at a nuclear station. As far as I understand, this is obviously, you know,
not my wheelhouse. But because we at ENPO don't work directly with, you know, kind of supporting
the safety system at a nuclear power station, we don't really have to, you know, kind of go
through that very, very rigorous process. Thank you. George, I think this question
might be kind of related. I saw you had a question earlier about safety assessments.
Do you want to jump in? Sure, yeah. I was just curious, you know, the data that
you're producing and from the assessment, is that ever shared with other federal agencies? And I was
thinking of OSHA and just been thinking more about how similar to like Northern Nordisk and
their submissions to the FDA. You know, I'm wondering if you're doing something like that
or if it's even possible. We do share, you know, some of the content from the reports.
Let me make sure of that. I know the one place that we share the report, I believe it's a report,
but it's definitely the assessment number, the assessment score is the company that
issues out insurance to the nuclear power industry. So, our assessment score is directly linked to
nuclear stations insurance rate, which gives us a little bit of,
it makes it very important that everything is right. And there are, you know, kind of no worries,
no challenges to it that can't be answered. We share some, we call it operating experience
with some other groups, but I don't think that we share the actual report with them.
So, it's a very kind of tightly, you know, guarded thing that we share with the senior leadership
at a station. And, you know, we share at least the assessment number with the insurance group.
But for the most part, we kind of hold on to the actual report findings because there's
a lot of ways that sharing that can go wrong. Sorry, not a great answer.
David, I feel like this might be a helpful conversation to open up with the group,
but I know when you and I were chatting at POSIT conference, we were talking a bit about how
when you rolled out POSIT team, it would have been helpful to know what a bit more about what
some other teams were doing with the products as well, to also kind of get ideas and share
use cases with each other. I don't know if you want to expand on that a bit and maybe ask to
the group too. Yeah. Okay. So, this is kind of my question for the group is, you know,
we recently rolled out POSIT team. And, you know, the modeling work that we've done at INPO
has been a very particular kind of modeling work where, you know, you kind of build a big model
and you deliver some results and then it gets sent to a visualization. And that's mostly it.
But I know that there is a lot more that, you know, POSIT team and other platforms offer a lot
more capabilities than that, you know, rather than just building a model and putting results
in a database. And, you know, kind of coming relatively new into this space, it's been hard
to just kind of figure out, you know, what are the different ways to use it? Like, what are the
things that I don't know first? And then what are, you know, maybe the best ways to solve certain
problems that I do know about, you know? So, you know, at a real technical level, you know,
we have a lot of Microsoft SQL servers and, you know, trying to use those with POSIT has
some challenges. So, you know, like, what are the best ways to solve that? I know that POSIT
has a lot of really good documentation online, but I'd love to hear from people that have actually
solved this problem and, you know, kind of learn what they've learned in the process, if that makes
sense. So like, where would someone go to kind of learn these best practices or have this sort of
conversation outside of, you know, a weekly data science hangout? Yeah. I see, Javier, you put some
thoughts in the chat. Do you want to get us going here? I'm like mid-chew with my breakfast. Sorry.
But I'll comment in a bit here. Okay. Who else wants to jump in then?
One of the things we had a lot of success with in a former life of mine was when we deployed
reports and a lot of these reports were sort of meant to monitor model scores over time. And so
this is not helping your Microsoft issue, I'm sorry. But in terms of just use cases in general,
we would do things like query in the back end. So we could run a report every day, every week,
perform a query, bring in this new data that we haven't seen yet,
and then run that through our models and then get some model scores. And then we could track those
model scores compared to yesterday's, last week's, whatever it is. And then we could use Blastula to
send out alerts and we could essentially create a custom report based on what we were seeing.
And that could be sent out to certain individuals associated with the account in question and that
sort of thing. So it's a nice handy monitoring tool. Thanks. I'm not, I'm not chewing anymore.
Okay. I could pop back in, but yeah, David, I don't know if you're using dbplyr.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay. So you know about that. That's something where I'm surprised how many
R users at my company don't know of dbplyr. And so they're like creating SQL files or,
you know, they're just doing things maybe in like a 2010 view of the R world. And that's okay
because a lot of them are more like, you know, proper statisticians who DevOps and
MLOps isn't really something in their wheelhouse. Are you using, well, I assume you're using some
kind of like get back to platform like GitHub or GitLab. Something we've recently been exploring
with PositConnect is just setting up a lot of CICD pipelines to sort of make the whole
deployment of content across different maybe like connect instances. So if you've got different
like dev or test or, you know, production instances, we're trying to sort of create a process
of, you know, being hands-off, like rolling up everything through a lot of CICD and Posit has
like excellent documentation on this stuff. So if you're not doing that, I'd definitely
recommend something like that too. And it plays nicely with, you know, dbplyr also.
I guess like kind of even at a higher level. So we have this platform, you know, this weekly
hangout that we could use to, you know, ask questions if it's the right context,
but where do y'all go outside of this to learn about the right ways to do things
or people's experiences with different ways to do things?
Yeah, for me personally, I feel like I'm asking questions all the time in public
places, internally, at least. I mean, I say public, like we have so many
teams channels around data and data quality and data science and analytics and all this stuff.
Like I'm pretty shameless when it comes to asking a bunch of questions on these things.
At the same time, like I feel like I'm constantly helping other people. So it's like, you know,
there's give and take, but I think for me, it's a lot of just like on the job exposure and
experience, asking people stuff that maybe I wouldn't be able to ask publicly and just like
working together to, you know, get through some of these hurdles. I mean, every team has like
really unique challenges. They might be using R, but they're like, you know, they're trying to map
to some network drive or something. And it's like, well, we can't really do that or not as easily,
but they want to fix it. So it's like, you know, I don't know. Sorry. I feel like I'm hijacking
the conversation here. But like internal networking, I guess, is what I would summarize
my comments to. That really helped a lot for us. And I think Catherine from my company is on here
too. I don't know if she has any additional comments. Yeah, Javier is totally shameless
about asking tons of questions and everything. But I do think that you're right in asking
about like, where do you go to get best practices? Because internally your team has,
like, or your company has a way that they do things. So getting exposure to the ways that
other companies do things, like knowing what else is out there, can be really difficult.
I don't personally do too much research because I try to like not work outside of work.
But it does make it difficult to figure out, like, what else is out there to then come back
to those conversations if you're setting up data scientists, IT, or those kinds of conversations
to bring those ideas if you don't know what they are. Yeah, I don't know what I don't know.
Yeah, and I know some industry groups like pharma have their own, like, are in pharma
like are in pharma organizations as well to share things with each other. But
I think a great option too, is like meeting each other from within this group too. And
having like smaller conversations or one off conversations. I know
some people have gotten to make friends from the data science hangouts too. So encouraging,
I encourage people to like connect with each other on LinkedIn too. And feel free to share
your LinkedIn in the chat too if you do want to connect with others. But I feel like I should
say this here too. Something I've been thinking about is if there are certain topics that come up
in a forum like this, where we maybe want to dive deeper into it, can we have like a smaller group
conversation following it? Maybe it's on a specific topic like, I don't know, securing
packages or having the conversation with IT about using open source packages. Or maybe it's about
shiny in production or something like that. So I'll think a bit more on that as well.
Yeah, the challenge for us is, you know, we at Info are pretty new to this. So there isn't that
sort of kind of institutional knowledge that we can quite, you know, reach out and question
other people about it. So it's at this point, you know, either, you know, kind of talking to
other people in the nuclear industry. And we do have a data science industry working group that
we've set up at Info, but across the nuclear industry. And we're starting to get some good
traction with that. But even past that, you know, it's good to have conversations with people of
different, you know, in different industries just to kind of understand, you know, how they might
think about things differently. Absolutely. Justin, I see you had a question a bit earlier.
Justin Lee, do you want to jump in? Yes, I am looking back to see what my question was.
No worries. I can ask your question if you want to add context to it.
The question was, speaking generally, how is the industry beginning to use natural language
processing? Okay. I'll tell you the little that I know. So I know that some places have set up,
you know, their own private instances of chat GPT, because, you know, nuclear data is regulated,
tightly regulated. So you have to be really careful about what infrastructure lives on.
So generally speaking, we're going to want to keep things on premise, you know, in our own
domains, rather than use something on Azure or AWS, if we can. So people have set up private
instances of chat GPT to try to kind of understand how it could be used for their organizations.
And there has been, you know, kind of some success, but as you all probably know,
not everything that comes out of chat GPT is correct, even if it sounds like a good,
well-formed sentence. So there's that. And then, you know, there's a lot of interest in
trying to figure out how to look at, this is a pretty well-known kind of program across stations.
So I don't think it's wrong to talk about it. So stations have something called a corrective
action program. So, you know, kind of generally speaking, any time there is an event, something
goes wrong, whether that's someone, you know, tripping on the sidewalk, walking into the station,
or there's a reactor scram, there is a report written up about that. And, you know, for a single
unit station, I think there's probably 600 people working there. And that means there are a lot of
these reports that get written. And, you know, at a certain point, you have a whole lot of text data
and not enough people or the right technology to actually kind of trend it and track it well.
So there's a lot of interest right now in understanding how to use this kind of
history of CAP records to understand, you know, kind of the behaviors that might influence performance.
So those are the two kind of big use cases I've heard so far.
That makes sense. Thank you.
Thank you. Another question I think I maybe saw earlier, maybe something anonymous as well.
Well, actually, let me shift gears for a second. I know when we were chatting before,
you were talking a little bit about how you're hiring for a role. And I thought it might be good
to just discuss a little bit of what you've learned recently in trying to fill a data science
role too. It's challenging, as a lot of you probably know. So we did actually fill the role.
The person hasn't started yet, but, you know, kind of everything's been signed. So we're good
there. And I feel like I learned a lot about what it takes to hire a data scientist in that process.
So, you know, we found that we got a lot of success using recruiters versus just kind of
having an open job posting, just because the market is pretty well flooded. And we wanted
someone that had some particular natural language experience. So, you know, instead of going through
the mountain of resumes, it was a little bit easier to have people help us find,
you know, people who were looking and people who had the right sort of resume.
And then from there, you know, going through the technical screen to make sure that they had the
right understanding that we were looking for. And then, you know, so that wasn't too bad, but,
you know, trying to find the right, especially when I don't know enough about natural language
processing to put it on my resume, but I'm trying to hire people who have that experience,
you know, you've got to do enough research so that you can ask the right questions.
And that was, I mean, that was pretty interesting. That was a lot of fun, to be honest with you.
But it was surprising to figure out exactly what, you know, in the process,
what you needed to look for on a resume to get the right level of experience, because,
you know, having some spacey or some hugging face experience doesn't necessarily mean that
you are right for the role. And the thing that I think surprised me most was that when we started
looking for people who didn't just have like a master's degree in data science or analytics,
but we're looking for things that were kind of more like applied roles where you were, you know,
getting a master's in or PhD in something besides those, you know, particular fields,
but you had to use machine learning, data science, NLP in order to actually
achieve that PhD or that master's. There was a lot of, I found those conversations to be,
you know, surprisingly useful because, you know, this person is not just,
I went through a master's program and got a master's in analytics. And, you know, for the
capstone, it was like, okay, you get to figure out how to put all of this together and then do it on
your own and figure it out. You know, you took all these classes and you get to figure it out.
And people with kind of what I'm calling an applied perspective for data science have already
been able to do that. And it's just, it was really useful to, you know, kind of suss that out in the
process. So that's something I'd recommend is, you know, maybe expanding the pool of applicants
past just those people that have the master's degrees in analytics and data science that I
think, you know, we probably all have seen them or have those ourselves.
Yeah. So did you end up redesigning the job description a bit?
No, we just ended it up taking a while to find the right candidate.
Ben, I see you just put a question in the chat. Want to jump in?
Yeah. Hey, David, thanks for the time. What are you currently working on to build your skill set?
I'm thinking more on the technical side, obviously you're doing a lot on the soft skills, but
what are some maybe historical stuff that has been in your industry or some other things outside of
your industry that you're working on that's going to advance your skill set? Do you find interesting
maybe? So I got to learn a lot about Linux, so tongue twister, because I was the one that got
to do the Posit install earlier this year. So that was interesting, challenging. I know a lot more
about infrastructure than I ever did now. I'll file that away for a rainy day. On the data science
side of things, I am, where's my book? I'm reading through Max's book, Applied Predictive
Modeling, right? And just trying to wrap my head around things dealing, the different sorts of
models and approaches to maybe cross-validation, statistical machine learning that we'll need,
because we tend to use kind of smaller data sets at Inpo. So it's, we don't have anything that I
would call like big data at the moment. So it's a very particular kind of flavor of data science and
machine learning. So I am reading through that and then just trying to figure out different ways to
actually stay up to date with new models, new algorithms, finding the right papers to read,
to stay up to date with those sorts of advances. And I haven't really found a great place that
kind of centralizes all that information yet. So if anybody else has some ideas about where to look,
I think I learned about R Weekly at PositConf this year. So yeah, feel free to share that,
because I've got an appetite for it. I was just saying, I see a lot of great
links shared in the chat too. So I'll take those and consolidate them and share with you as well,
David. Thank you. That's excellent. An anonymous question from a bit earlier was,
what are the biggest challenges you face when putting data science solutions in production?
So, I mean, to be honest, we haven't faced a whole lot of that yet because we are still
pretty fresh. My brain goes back to the way that we created a model that kind of estimates
performance in between evaluations and deliver those results. But because that model is such a
kind of a tightly guarded secret, I consider it probably the most critical piece of intellectual
property we have at ENPO, because if anyone finds out what goes into that model, then there's no way
to build a better model. So delivering those results meant that we can't tell people what
goes into the model, which means that when a station's value changes, they, of course,
want to know why. That's just a natural thing to ask. And we didn't really give people a great
way to explain that at a kind of a general level. So last year, we built a tool to help them kind
of interpret that score and the changes to that score. And every time we would build this model,
we'd get this mountain of emails asking why this and that changed. And then we built this tool that
helps give context to the changes. And now it's kind of crickets every time we publish the model
results, which is good news for everyone. Past that, we're going to be building more kind of
tools, models, APIs, but we haven't done it yet. So I'm not really sure what the challenges are.
So if anyone has any lessons learned, I'm so ready and willing to hear what y'all have learned
as part of kind of pushing out Posit Team or any other sort of data science platform.
Yeah. And David, if people do want to connect directly after, is LinkedIn the best way?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. I'll share your LinkedIn in the chat here in a second too. But Nick, I see you just asked
a question in the chat. Want to jump in here next?
Yeah, sure. Hi, everyone. So basically, I'm trying to relate to something I'm currently
going through at work where we just set up an analytics team. And before the business is willing
to really commit any resources and invest, we keep getting this ask to estimate the ROI we expect
from the project before the business is willing to commit any time or resources to help us with it.
Basically, I'd like to ask you for ideas on how do you approach estimating the ROI from a project
before you even have the resources or the buy-in to start looking into it? And follow-up question,
once a project is implemented, how do you look back and estimate the ROI from a project you've
implemented already? So this is a really challenging
question to ask because we are a nonprofit with a mission to make sure that the industry performs
the highest standards of excellence that we can set. So coming up with an ROI, it's really hard
to quantify that. And we have different ways that we do that, but I don't really maybe think that
they're more generally applicable to what you're talking about from a pure project management
standpoint. Ideally, I feel like what you would want to do is, you know, put together.
I was going to try to answer it well, but I don't have a good answer for you. It's just,
it's not something that we deal with in the same way that I think that you do. And I don't feel
like I've got a good answer for you. I can share one from another hangout we had with Natalie O'Shea
at BetterUp. I was trying to find a little clip to share with you, but
Natalie shared a bit how when she was going through this process for getting approval for
PositTeam, she focused in on one specific problem that the team had. And so the use case she gave
was their consulting organization. So their sales team had to make these PowerPoints over and over
again with new data and based on different industries. And to actually make a great deck
for a presentation was taking hours and hours. And so they sent out a poll to all of the sales reps
to ask how much time were they taking building these, and they actually put a dollar amount
to it. And so I think it ended up being like $1.2 million a year in people cost.
And then she showed how she could automate that with a Shiny application that the sales team would
go to the Shiny app, kind of put in whatever they needed for the customer, and then automatically
generate the PowerPoint, which was tied directly to their database as well. And so in using that
one example, she was able to put a dollar amount to it. So maybe that's one tip is to think
in your, when you're building this business case, to think about one team that you might
be able to help, because then they might be the ones kind of joining onto your business case too.
Like I think it was maybe the head of sales that ended up helping push it forward for
their data team too. Yeah, I think that's very useful insight actually, Rachel.
Thanks for that. Only thing is that I think when it comes to automation of daily routine tasks and
activities, it's a bit easier to estimate ROI as opposed to analytics modeling where you're
dealing with uncertainty, right? And sometimes you're not even sure if you get anywhere with
the time you invest, right? So yeah, it's not an easy task. And I would really appreciate
any thoughts or feedback from anyone that's gone through that experience before as well.
Trace. Nick, this is Eduardo Castillo and I, actually I'm from the nuclear industry. I know
Dave, we are a working group at Enpo. And one thing I can offer from a data science perspective
is that it's important to kind of go for big targets. So one of the big projects we're working
on right now is around reducing diving frequencies for cleaning some of our intake structures. And
that's a very big, you know, $1 million a year project where we had no ongoing data science
efforts to improve performance of that evolution. And so having a big target, I think was
important because even if we could cut, you know, 5% of that, it becomes a good hard dollar ROI.
And the second piece is looking at things like risk, like when you have like an activity like
diving, you do have a lot of occupational risk. And we're actually able to tie, you know, what
the occupational risk is and how it compares to other activities that we do at the plant.
So it allows us to kind of capture both the hard savings and also the qualitative
software savings. And again, just starting with a big target of project that,
you know, is targeting a big budget, I think it's important.
Thanks, Eduardo.
Yeah, thanks so much. Anybody else want to jump in on this topic?
Laura, I see you unmuted. Do you want to add something?
Yeah, I can't find the button. Yeah, I just want to, for the idea about ROI,
there's a podcast called CDO Matters by a guy, Malcolm Hawker. He works at Prophecy.
We're doing MDM. And he's got, I listened to his podcast while running. It's a great
like intellectual thing. It has a lot of information about ROI, especially in light
of you see a lot of these press releases about data teams being laid off. And, you know,
those of us in data are like, how can you do that? You know, data is so important. But again,
it's that proof that you're actually impacting the bottom line of the company. And so if you
want to dig a little more into that world, I highly recommend his podcasts. They're not
they're not too overly fluffy with crap. And they're all they're all quite interesting,
about 45 minutes. So I highly recommend if that idea of ROI is important.
Absolutely. Yeah, I think you shared the link maybe in the chat, too. Okay.
Thanks for the recommendation.
Abigail, do you want to add anything here? I saw your comment in the chat, too. Oh, sorry.
Yeah. Feel free to just raise your hand on here if anybody has anything else to
add. But I'll try and jump over to some of the remaining questions, too. Let's see. We had quite
a few anonymous questions. I want to make sure I didn't miss anything. But when we get to the last
few minutes here, if there's something you ask that you that didn't get answered as well,
feel free to recopy it into the Zoom chat here. But one of the other questions, David, was
what is your company's relationship as relates to the interface between government and industry?
So that's great. So there's the NRC, which is, you know, kind of the government regulator.
And they have all of their own guidelines. They do their own sorts of evaluations.
But the, you know, kind of the whole impetus of INPO was when Three Mile Island happened. There
was this—Jimmy Carter put together this commission. It was called the Kemeny Commission.
And the commission, you know, had a whole lot of findings. One of them was that there needed to be
kind of an independent, non-governmental organization to set these sorts of safety
and reliability standards and then to assess them. So we are not really—I mean, we're in the
nuclear industry, so, of course, we're associated with the NRC, but we don't really answer to them.
You know, we kind of answer more so to our members, to the domestic nuclear industry.
So we're two sort of kind of regulatory bodies that have, you know, maybe some different,
some overlapping interests, but also some, you know, kind of different missions.
Thank you. So a question that I love to get to ask everybody towards the end is,
is there a piece of career advice that stands out to you, whether it's been something that
you've received or advice you've given that you'd like to share with us?
I knew you were going to ask this, so I had to think about it in advance. And I had like five
or six different things that I came up with. The one that I think I want to stick with is
be open to doing things that make you feel uncomfortable. So I, you know, as a human being,
but also professionally, you know, that's kind of where the growth happens. You know,
if you just do the same thing day in, day out, you're just going to kind of, you know,
tread water in a way. But if you, you know, lean into the things that make you uncomfortable
in a healthy way, obviously, then I think that's, you know, kind of, that's where you can
grow your, you know, your professional relationships, your technical capabilities,
like your mental health in a way is kind of, you know, leaning into that and being okay with
the discomfort knowing that, you know, you're going to learn something from it.
Absolutely. Can you share an example with us of where you're doing that?
Being asked to do a data science hangout?
Yes. Awesome.
Yeah. Yeah. And the other piece, and I've been a part of them for seven years,
that is Toastmasters. That's something, you know, working on your communication skills
is as critical as a data scientist. You know, you can, you can create the coolest, coolest,
you know, model, next big app, that sort of thing. But if you can't really communicate it well,
then it's, you're going to have a hard time getting other people to understand why it's
so important. So figuring out ways to kind of hone those skills are really, really important,
just as much, in my opinion, as kind of the technical skills.
Definitely. Yanning, I see you had asked a question in the chat. Want to jump in here?
Yes. Every time I listen to some great talk, I would like the speaker to share some good books.
Good books you like. Not only me, definitely, yeah, I love the data books, data science books,
but any other books you want to share? I mean, because some words you said are so smart and
wise. That's, that's, that's funny. I'm looking at my bookshelf to see, you know,
what kind of pops out, pops into my head. You know, the, I'm not, I'm not employed by Palzit,
but they do, you know, people that work for Palzit have some pretty good books,
are for data science. And then also, you know, kind of the elements of statistical learning.
That was one of the books that I ended up buying as part of my graduate program that I still
refer to, to this day. You know, outside of that, I picked up a book called On Being Nice
this past weekend that I really, really enjoy and, you know, kind of, kind of, you know,
sits well with me. And then there's also a book that I started reading called Focus that's really,
really interesting. But, you know, these are just kind of things that are off the top of my head.
I can't really think of anything else major, but I'd love for people to maybe type into the chat
any books that you might recommend, whether they're, you know, related to data science or not.
Yeah, I like to know.
Does anybody have Libby's link handy? She's been keeping track of all the books
recommended in the Hangout.
I'm being a bad multitasker today, trying to go find it. So if anybody can share it,
that would be great. Thank you. I see there's a bit of a
kind of sub-conversation happening in the chat, too, when we were talking about maybe
these smaller group chats, too, and perhaps having one, like a whole discussion on ROI
might be a useful one. So I will save this chat here so I can reach out to everybody. But
in that thread, if you want to just put your email in there, I'll say right here,
I will save that and reach out so we can maybe schedule a separate chat around ROI, too.
Awesome. So let's see, for any questions that have gone unanswered, does anybody want to raise
your hand here and jump in and ask it? I think we have covered almost everything. Oh, Michael,
there you go. I want to see if I can still access the information in the chat because I do not want
to lose them. I've missed some, so I still want to get back to them. Yes, definitely. So if you
want to save the info in the chat, you can use the three dots below it where it says more,
and then you can press save chat there. But David, I guess to end on a note of...
I don't know. I think the function...
If you want to, Michael, if you want to send me, share your email in the chat,
I can email it to you as well if it doesn't work for you. But David, one other question I'd love to
ask is thinking about the year ahead, the 2024, what's something that you're excited about for
your team? So this year was kind of focused on building out what we call our data science
environment, getting Posit built. And now it's built, it's stable, and we're ready to use it.
And I'm just excited to try to figure out all the different ways that we could deliver these
really incredible data science products to the industry at large, and then also to
Inpo internally. It's something that we've never really had and really excited to
put it to good use. Awesome. Well, thank you so much, David, for joining us today. And thank
you all for all the great questions and spending your Thursday with us. I'm trying to get better
about saying this, but I talk to a lot of people from companies who might not know that other teams
within their company are using our tools. So if you are ever just curious and want to chat with
us about it, I made a little form for myself so that it was in one place. So feel free to
put your name there, and I'm happy to connect you with others within your company too.
But thank you again for spending time with us today. I really appreciate it, David.
Thank you, Rachel. Thank you, David. Thank you, everyone. Bye-bye. Bye, everybody. Thank you.